[RUM 9145] Refactor RUM Action Tracking (#941)
DataDog/dd-sdk-reactnative: packages/react-native-babel-plugin/README.md

# Babel Plugin for React Native

The `@datadog/mobile-react-native-babel-plugin` enhances the Datadog React Native SDK by automatically enriching React components with contextual metadata. It helps improve the accuracy of features such as RUM event correlation, Session Replay, and UI tracking.

## Setup

> **Note**: Make sure you’ve already integrated the [Datadog React Native SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@datadog/mobile-react-native).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Make sure you’ve already integrated the [Datadog React Native SDK][1].
```

To install with NPM, run:

```sh
npm install @datadog/mobile-react-native-babel-plugin
```

To install with Yarn, run:

```sh
npm install @datadog/mobile-react-native-babel-plugin
```

## Configure Babel

Add the plugin to your Babel configuration. Depending on your setup, you might be using a `babel.config.js`, `.babelrc`, or similar.

Example configuration:

```js
module.exports = {
  presets: ['module:metro-react-native-babel-preset'],
  plugins: ['@datadog/mobile-react-native-babel-plugin'] // <-- Add here
};
```

> For more recent React Native versions this should be all that is needed. However, if you're on an older version and using Typescript in your project, you may need to install the following preset:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more recent React Native versions this should be all that is needed. However, if you're on an older version and using Typescript in your project, you may need to install the preset `@babel/preset-typescript`.
```

To install with NPM, run:

```sh
npm install @babel/preset-typescript
```

To install with Yarn, run:

```sh
yarn add @babel/preset-typescript 
```

> Then update your babel configuration file like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then update your Babel configuration file using the following example:
```

```js
module.exports = {
  presets: [
    'module:metro-react-native-babel-preset', 
    '@babel/preset-typescript' // <-- Add here
  ],
  plugins: ['@datadog/mobile-react-native-babel-plugin']
};

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Babel Plugin for React Native

The `@datadog/mobile-react-native-babel-plugin` enhances the Datadog React Native SDK by automatically enriching React components with contextual metadata. It helps improve the accuracy of features such as RUM event correlation, Session Replay, and UI tracking.

## Setup

**Note**: Make sure you’ve already integrated the [Datadog React Native SDK][1].

To install with NPM, run:

```sh
npm install @datadog/mobile-react-native-babel-plugin
```

To install with Yarn, run:

```sh

> npm install @datadog/mobile-react-native-babel-plugin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
yarn add @datadog/mobile-react-native-babel-plugin
```

```

## Configure Babel

Add the plugin to your Babel configuration. Depending on your setup, you might be using a `babel.config.js`, `.babelrc`, or similar.

Example configuration:

```js

> module.exports = {
>   presets: ['module:metro-react-native-babel-preset'],
>   plugins: ['@datadog/mobile-react-native-babel-plugin'] // <-- Add here
> };

Reviewer 2: I would use this as the example configuration, as it is based on RN > 0.72

```suggestion
module.exports = {
  presets: ['module:@react-native/babel-preset'],
  plugins: ['@datadog/mobile-react-native-babel-plugin'] // <-- Add here
};
```

```
For more recent React Native versions this should be all that is needed. However, if you're on an older version and using Typescript in your project, you may need to install the preset `@babel/preset-typescript`.

To install with NPM, run:

```sh
npm install @babel/preset-typescript
```

To install with Yarn, run:

```sh
yarn add @babel/preset-typescript 
```

Then update your Babel configuration file like using the following example:

```js
module.exports = {
  presets: [
    'module:metro-react-native-babel-preset', 
    '@babel/preset-typescript' // <-- Add here
  ],
  plugins: ['@datadog/mobile-react-native-babel-plugin']
};
```

> [1]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@datadog/mobile-react-native

Reviewer 2: Regarding this, do we have any additional context? 

- For which version of RN / project configuration is this true?
- Is this a compile-time issue?

I have tested the first babel configuration on RN 0.65, on a TypeScript project, and it worked. The same goes for RN 0.72.

The only difference I have encountered is how the react-native babel preset should be set:

**RN >= 0.73**
```js
module.exports = {
  presets: ['module:@react-native/babel-preset'],
  plugins: ['@datadog/mobile-react-native-babel-plugin'] // <-- Add here
};
```

**RN <= 0.72**
```js
module.exports = {
  presets: ['module:metro-react-native-babel-preset'],
  plugins: ['@datadog/mobile-react-native-babel-plugin'] // <-- Add here
};
```

Author: This is really a fail safe measure in case people have issues, most likely won't happen, I don't recall exactly, but I got it when testing on an expo project. But I'm ok with removing it.

Reviewer 2: We could add a small section for Troubleshooting, and mention it there. It would be ideal if we had an example of the error, to write something like:

```md
### ERROR: <description of the error>

This happens because of X and Y, and this is how you fix it:
```
